Use HR schema: Run hr_schema.sql script to create the database and tables. Then run hr_data.sql to populate this database with data.


1. Show last names and numbers of all managers together with the number of employees that are his / her subortinates.



2. Create a report that displays the department name, location name, job title and salary of those employeses who work in a specific (given) location.




3. Find the number of employees who have a last name that ends with the letter n.





4. Create a report that shows the name, location and the number of employees for each department. Make sure that report also includes departments without employees.


 ...    


5. Show all employees who were hired in the first five days of the month (before the 6th of the month).






6. Create a report to display the department number and lowest salary of the department with the highest average salary.





7. Create a report that displays department where no sales representatives work. Include the deprtment number, department name and location in the output.





8. Display the depatrment number, department name and the number of employees for the department:
a. with the highest number of employees.





b. with the lowest number of employees





c. that employs fewer than three employees.





9. Display years and total numbers of employees that were employed in that year.



10. Display countries and number of locations in that country.



If you have time, complete the following exercises:



A1. Create a query to display the employees who earn a salary that is higher than the salary of all the sales managers (JOB_ID = 'SA_MAN'). Sort the results from the highest to the lowest.





A2. Display details such as the employee ID, last name, and department ID of those employees who works in cities the names of which begin with 'T'.




A3. Write a query to find all employees who earn more than the average salary in their


   ...   


A4. Find all employees who are not sumervisors (managers). Do this using the NOT EXISTS operator.


   ...   

Can it be done using NOT IN operator?


A5. Display the last names of the employees who earn less than the average salary in their departments.


   ...   


A6. Display the last names of the employees who have one or more coworkers in their departments with later hire dates but higher salaries.


   ...   


A7. Display the department names of those depatrments whose total salary cost is above one-eight (1/8) of the total salary cost od the whole company. Use the WITH clause to write this query. Name the query SUMMARY.





A8. Delete the oldest JOB_HISTORY row of an employee by looking up the JOB_HISTORY table for the MIN(START_DATE) for the employee. Delete the records of only those employees who have changed at least two jobs.


